---
layout: page
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
---

1.	Bioinformatics
a)	Generalized microbe-phenotype triangulation: Gut microbiota protects the host against incursion by exogenous and often harmful microorganisms. To address the challenge of identifying microbes responsible for microbiota-mediated colonization resistance (CR) against pathogens, I developed the GMPT to systematically identify causal microbes that directly influence the microbiota-mediated CR against pathogens [4]. This method holds a promise to advance our understanding of CR mechanisms and facilitate the rational design of microbiome-based therapies for enteric infections. 
b)	Metagenomic binning for reconstructing multi-kingdom genomes (M-bridge): Metagenomic binning is a powerful reference-free strategy for analyzing WMS sequencing data. However, current state-of-the-art approaches typically reconstruct microbial genomes from a single kingdom, such as bacteria. I aim to develop a computational pipeline to reconstruct multi-kingdom microbial genomes simultaneously (project in progress).

2.	Host-microbiota interactions
a)	Dynamic Microbiome Changes: age and aging.  The global older population is increasing, and it's anticipated to more than double to 1.5 billion in the next 30 years, leading to a rise in age-related diseases, escalating health costs, and social care challenges. To explore microbiome-based interventions in aging, we first analyzed the longitudinal microbiome samples from 953 pigs at different ages [1]. Our study unveiled dynamic shifts in the pig gut microbiome over time, providing valuable insights into age-related changes in the microbial community. To evaluate how the gut microbiota changes during aging, we tracked male mice aged 21 to 30 months and found that calorie restriction notably reduced the frailty index increase [2]. Microbial signatures from 21-month-old mice accurately predicted healthy aging in 30-month-old mice using a machine learning model. The research sheds light on potential microbiome-based interventions to promote healthy aging. 
b)	Rejuvenating the human gut microbiome. Industrial progress has eroded gut microbiome diversity, potentially raising disease susceptibility. Recently, rewilding the human gut microbiome–bringing it back to an ancestral or preindustrial state–has been hotly debated. Therefore, I proposed an alternative solution: rejuvenating the human gut microbiome by stool banking and autologous fecal microbiota transplantation, that is, collecting the hosts’ stool samples at a younger age when they are at optimal health and cryopreserving the samples in a stool bank for the hosts’ future use [10].
c)	Clostridioides difficile infection is one of the leading causes of healthcare- and antibiotic-associated diarrhea. Current diagnostic methods lack precision, leading to misidentifications. To overcome this limitation, we utilized multi-omics data and machine learning models, revealing that the integration of both gut microbiome and host immune marker data in classification models enhances the discrimination of CDI from other groups compared to using either data type alone [3, 11, 12]. We identified formulas quantifying gut microbiome-host immune interactions, offering valuable insights for CDI diagnosis and understanding host-microbiome interactions. 
d)	COVID-19 is often accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms. To understand the potential role of the human microbiome in COVID-19, I designed a project to use whole-metagenome sequencing data together with assembly and binning strategies to reconstruct metagenome-assembled genomes from six COVID-19-related independent cohorts [5]. Using a machine learning model, I demonstrated that gut microbiome signatures could accurately distinguish COVID-19 and predict the progression of COVID-19. Additionally, I identified microbial strains and pathways linked to COVID-19 manifestations. These insights into metagenomic strain-level aspects of the relationship between the human microbiome and COVID-19 and genome context will form the basis for future studies.
e)	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common and debilitating mental disorder. The gut microbiome is emerging as a key mechanism for modulating human mental health. I analyzed the information on PTSD symptoms with gut microbiome data and dietary information in a women cohort [8]. I demonstrated that PTSD symptoms are linked to less adherence to the Mediterranean diet and specific protective microbes. Identified pathways, contributed by protective species, potentially offer protection against PTSD. 
f)	Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic disease that often accompanies inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In this project, we aim to understand the role of the microbiome in the pathophysiology of PSC and IBD in order to develop therapeutics that address the underlying pathophysiology. We have collected multi-omics data from a well-characterized cohort, including oral microbiome, fecal microbiome, and metabolome data (project in progress).

3.	Microbiome-based therapeutics
a)	CDI recurs in approximately one-third of cases following antibiotic treatment, leading many patients into a vicious cycle of antibiotic therapy and relapse. Gut microbiota restoration, such as fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), has been shown to be effective for recurrent CDI, but the exact mechanisms and long-term safety remain unclear. To address this limitation, I conducted a project to rationally design live biotherapeutic products target CDI[13].  
b)	Urinary tract infection is the most common hospital-acquired infection. The etiology of recurrent UTI is not completely known, but the urinary microbiome is thought to be implicated. To address this knowledge gap, I initiated a project to apply metagenomic assembly and binning to construct the urinary gene and genome catalogs in more than 530 urinary microbiome samples. I systematically investigated the composition and distribution of antibiotic resistance genes, biosynthesis gene clusters, UTI-related strains, and discovered potential antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) to combat UTI via deep learning models. I am currently working on the in vitro validation of candidate AMPs target uropathogenic Escherichia coli (manuscript in preparation).  
c)	In my previous project (see 2.e), I have successfully identified interactions between the human microbiome and PTSD. Based on these findings, I have successfully identified candidate protective species for PTSD. To further validate this, we first tested how trauma exposure (chronic social defeat stress) alters the gut microbiome in both female and male mice. We have successfully validated our key findings from the human cohort and will next test whether administering candidate protective species along with prebiotics can prevent and alleviate stress-induced behavioral changes in mice.
